Welcome back everyone to part one of tuks generation of python and keris in part 1.
We're going to process the tax cleaned the text and took the tax increase sequences with Keres pre-processing.
Let's get started.
OK let's begin by creating a simple function that can read in files we'll call it read files and when
you give a file path it's going to do is simply return as a single string everything in that particular
document.
So we're simply using with open file path as.
Go ahead and grab all the text string text read it in his own giant string.
And after you've done opening it.
Go ahead and return String text.
So we have this convenience function here.
So if we call read a file and we're going to be using the Moby Dick story.
So we have the first four chapters of Moby Dick is the file We're going to be reading in.
And if you just run this without saying anything you should get one giant string here of the first four
chapters of Moby Dick.
And keep in mind is not that there's a lot of new lines because of the way this is formatted inside
this text file.
Ok so I can't comment that out will be using it later.
And the next step is to tokenize and clean the text and we can use spaces to do this.
There's lots of different ways but we'll see import Spacey and then it will say P is equal to spacey
the load will go ahead and just load English.
And I really just want to use speccy for tokenization.
I don't need to do parsing tagging or named entity recognition so I can add in this able and I can add
a list of things I want disabled so I can disable the parser disable the tagger and disable names and
the recognition that's going to help our tokenization process go a little faster.
Okay.
And then the last thing I want to make sure I'm going to set an LP max length equal to a larger number
than 1 million.
So there's quite a bit of words inside these first four chapters.
And if you want to do it across the entire Melleville text.
So if you do read file here and start typing out Melleville we do actually have the entirety of Moby
Dick text in case you want to work with that.
So in case you want to work with a really large piece of text sometimes a.p complains that it doesn't
have enough of the maximum length so you can provide a larger number so that number that should work
for the entirety of the text file.
We have this in the notebook so I'm going to try and copy and paste it here.
That should give you as many words as there are inside this Moby Dick text file.
So again in case you want to run it on the entirety of the text you may need to set this max limit higher.
So once we've done that we're going to create another function called Separate underscore punctuation
and it takes in some document text as a string and then it's going to grab the text tokens.
If they're not some particular type of punctuation or if they're not you line.
So we're simply going to do this with list comprehension we'll say token text and we're going to lowercase
it for a token in an p doc underscore text.
Ok so we have tooken that text that lower for token an LP text and we're going to say if that text is
not in and then we're going to have a string here.
So let me zoom out just quickly to explain the logic what's going on.
Member and LNP I can get the actual tokens using an LP on that particular document.
So the idea is only to read in this entire thing as a string passing in to an LP and then iterate through
tokens grabbing their text and then lowercase it.
However I want to get rid of things that are probably not going to be very helpful for training purposes
like periods or new lines because they show up so often in the actual text especially new lines that
I want to make sure my text generation neural network doesn't overfit that sort of punctuation.
Otherwise you may just get a bunch of periods or a bunch of new lines at the end.
Since those are common enough that the neural network overfit to them.
So what I can do is say go for every token and then check that the token text is not in.
And then I can decide and just put a string of things that I want to make sure are not in there so I
can do just random punctuation I can add in new lines and anything I pass on to the string.
It's not going to be added to this list of tokens.
So I'm going to copy and paste a string that we've provided and we'll show you later on.
It's actually provided by keris as a convenience method for a bunch of punctuation but I've also added
things like double newlines and triple newlines and spaces to this.
So I copied and pasted this from the note book that goes along with this text generation of neural networks
and all we're doing here is we're saying if the character or word basically if the token happens to
be any of these things like an at symbol square braces a new line punctuation and like periods or double
dashes go ahead and get rid of it.
We're not going to need it.
We don't want to over train or train on that information.
We're really interested in the relationship between words.
So we're going to go ahead and create that separate punctuation function.
And then I'm going to read in and this case all read in.
Make sure I have this as a string.
I'll read it in Moby Dick the first four chapters entry dealing with the first four chapters you shouldn't
have an issue with the max length the max length should only be an issue of the entirety of the text.
Keep in mind if you want to train on the entirety of text that's going to take a while and even four
chapters going to take some serious amount of time.
We'll say tokens is equal to.
And then we're going to separate punctuation and you run this and then you're going to have the tokens
themselves.
So if you check that out now we can see the tokens come Ishmail some years ago etc. etc. so I have this
giant list of all the tokens and we checked the length of this.
It's eleven thousand three hundred ninety four tokens for the first four chapters.
Next we're going to do is create sequence of tokens so the general idea that we're going to run through
here is that we're going to pass in the first 24 words of a sentence and have our network predicts the
25th word.
So I'm going to say.
So what we're going to do here is we're going to pass in 25 words and then have our network the neural
network that is predicts the very next word after.
So essentially we're number 26 so he pasand 25 words in a sentence and then the target word is the next
word after those 25.
And depending on what kind of documents and what kind of text generation you want you may want to make
that list of words shorter or longer.
The idea here is that 25 words is long enough to grab the structure of a sentence but not short enough
where you're missing general context so hopefully that helps her generation.
Again there is no right or wrong answer but you can imagine that if you're dealing with for instance
a haiku dataset you probably don't need 25 words to predict number 26.
In fact haikus probably don't have 25 words per line so you probably go for shorter maybe half three
words and predicts word number four.
Same thing if to generate song lyrics or something that you probably want to go shorter if you're trying
to predict something like Shakespeare you may have to go up to 50 words and for the word number 51 because
you have things like characters being introduced and who's speaking things like action scenes etc..
So again no right or wrong answer here just something you have to play around with depending on what
documents you're looking at.
So we're going to do say training length and zoom back in here is equal to 25 plus one.
And then I'm going to make an empty list called Text sequences and I will say for I in range of the
training length up to the length of the tokens go ahead and create a sequence which is going to be tokens.
I minus train length up to I and then we're going to add that.
Ticker text sequences and we will pin that particular sequence.
So this is a little confusing at first but once you see the actual result it makes a lot more sense.
So go ahead and run that.
And then if you check out your text sequences it's just a giant list.
So it was.
So it's a giant list.
Let's go ahead and grab the first item in that list and it says Call me Ishmael some years ago and it
goes all the way to interest me on.
And now the next sequence is essentially one word over or one token over.
It starts with me Ishmael and then it keeps going on.
So we've essentially created these sequences for the entirety of the document.
And if you actually want to view these we can do is say space dot join tech sequences for any sequence
such as 0 and you'll see what this looks like says Call me Ishmael.
And then if we copy and paste this and go for the next sequence run that.
You notice it's just one token over.
So go again and again it's one token over.
So we're doing this across the entire document attack just creating these text sequences that happens
to be in our case the training length because we're dealing with 25 words here that we want to train
on and then our ideas to predict this word on.
So essentially the networks to say OK given these 25 words can I predict.
Sure.
Given these 25 words can I predict I.
OK.
So we've created our text sequences again just using a simple for loop.
So we're using slicing here to actually grab these sequences and we're just upping the original starting
position minus the length all the way to I want to have that ready to go.
Well we need to do is use Cara's tokenization to format this into a numerical system that Chris can
understand.
And luckily this is actually pretty straightforward.
We'll see from Cara's dot pre-processing text import tokenizer and then we create the tokenizer object.
We'll say tokenizer is equal to an instance of tokenizer.
And there are different arguments you can pass in the tokenizer and it is tokenizer itself already has
some filters for things like punctuation and Stoppard's et cetera.
Well it really just punctuation.
And what I did was I copied and pasted this into our original tokenizer up here.
So that's where I got the string from.
But I also added my own stuff that I knew was particular to this document like double newlines spaces
and triple new lines as well as these double dashes that appear throughout the text.
So that's where I got it from.
We have the tokenizer ready to go and then we're going to take our tokenizer and I'm going to call fit
on Tex for this.
So it.
Underscore on underscore tecs and then we just provide our text sequences.
So you run that and then we'll grab our sequences and it will be tokenizer dot and then call text 2
and it can actually go directly to Matrix.
But I want to show you what it looks like when you go the sequences and then pasand text sequences.
So if I take a look at what these sequences actually look like.
You notice that it just looks like like a series of numbers.
And notice the starting ones here 9 6 4 14 and 2 6 5.
Let's look at the next entry and sequences notice.
Now it's 14 to 6 5.
So what we've done here is we've essentially replaced our original text sequences which are just sequences
of text 26 long two sequences that happen to have numbers in place of those words.
And now the idea is that each of these numbers is an ID for a particular word.
And if you want to figure out the relationship you simply call tokenizer dot index word and you can
see a picture here that connects every single value to a particular word.
Because here one of the most common ones one is the two is and et cetera.
And there's your actual tokenization so you can easily go back and forth between these numeric sequences
and these text sequences using this tokenizer index where it can simply say something like four and
sequences 0 go ahead and print out just using string formatting I can print out the actual ID a space
and this essentially acts like a dictionary so I can say tokenizer dot index word at that particular
eye.
So if you actually print that out let's go and take a look at it.
It just prints them both out 9:06 for is call 14 as me just smile.
And so on.
So if we see a word that repeats I'm not sure if there is one here.
We can scroll down.
So we have on.
We actually don't have anything repeating here but something I want to stress is that 14 is a unique
ID to the word me.
So if you ever see me again in another sentence again I'm going to get the index 14.
This is not exactly a count.
It's just a unique ID for this particular word.
OK.
So we've conducted the tokenization and we can check now if we want from tokenizer.
It has actually a lot of information.
It also has things like word counts which essentially counts how many times these words show up.
So the word me shows up 2004 and 71 times Ishmail hundred thirty three times some seventieth.
So 58 et cetera.
Or a dictionary here.
So in case you want to do things like word count essentially factorization there's some information
here on the tokenizer.
They can easily access so let's go ahead and get a size of our vocabulary by simply saying vocabulary.
Size is equal to length of tokenizer underscore word counts.
So if I checked my vocabulary size.
There's 2700 and nine unique words across those first four chapters.
OK.
So the last thing you need to do is convert these sequences remember sequences right now.
We have our text sequences which is the actual text in our sequences which is the ID numbers for each
word.
Right now if I check the type of this it's a list where every item in the list is another list of these
actual numbers.
I'd like to do is format that to be an umpire matrix.
And what I can do is I could simply cast it in poor umpires and the and then just call sequences and
make that equal to the array version of the sequences and then if I look at sequences it's nicely formatted.
So essentially each of these rows represents a single line in the text.
Again notice how we're essentially shifting one word over.
So I go 9 6 4 14 2 6 5 and then 14 becomes the first one of this line.
5:46 5:51 and so on et cetera et cetera.
For all the text so there are as many sequences as there are words in the actual document.
We're just going one by one essentially shifting over one word at a time.
And then we have the actual target that we're trying to predict.
So given these ID numbers for each word what is the expected word to come after those first 25 words.
So we already have our features here as well as our label.
And later on we'll be performing a train test split with that functionality which is why we kind of
needed it in this NUMP hiree.
OK.
So that's it for part 1 part 2 will create the elist based model and then we'll perform the train test
and train the model.
We'll see it there.